README.md, before:

# Chess Adventure Quest ♞

A kid-friendly browser-based chess learning game built with React, TypeScript, and Vite. Learn chess piece movements by controlling individual pieces on small boards while collecting coins and avoiding enemies!

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Start the development server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

3. **Open your browser** and visit the URL shown (usually `http://localhost:5173`)

## 🎮 How to Play

- **Click** on highlighted squares to move your chess piece
- **Use arrow keys** for keyboard movement
- **Collect all coins** (🪙) on each level
- **Reach the exit** (🚪) to complete the level
- **Learn** how Knight (L-shaped) and Pawn (forward + diagonal capture) pieces move
- **Navigate around or capture** slime obstacles (🟢)

## 📋 Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run test` - Run unit tests
- `npm run lint` - Lint the codebase

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **React 18** + **TypeScript** - UI and type safety
- **Vite** - Fast build tool and dev server
- **Zustand** - Lightweight state management
- **Vitest** + **React Testing Library** - Testing
- **CSS Grid** - Responsive board layout

## 📚 Full Documentation

For detailed game features, project structure, and development guide, see [README_GAME.md](./README_GAME.md).

---

**Happy Chess Learning!** 🎉

Commit message:

Add live demo links and update documentation
- Add prominent live demo link to both README files
- Remove outdated coin collection references from game description
- Update game objectives to reflect simplified exit-only win condition
- Highlight GitHub Pages deployment at top of documentation

Live game: https://jcar.github.io/chess-adventure-quest/

README.md, after:

# Chess Adventure Quest ♞

A kid-friendly browser-based chess learning game built with React, TypeScript, and Vite. Learn chess piece movements by controlling individual pieces on small boards while navigating obstacles to reach the exit!

## 🎮 [**PLAY NOW - Live Demo**](https://jcar.github.io/chess-adventure-quest/)

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Start the development server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

3. **Open your browser** and visit the URL shown (usually `http://localhost:5173`)

## 🎮 How to Play

- **Click** on highlighted squares to move your chess piece
- **Use arrow keys** for keyboard movement
- **Reach the exit** (🚪) to complete the level
- **Learn** how Knight (L-shaped) and Pawn (forward + diagonal capture) pieces move
- **Navigate around or capture** slime obstacles (🟢)

## 📋 Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run test` - Run unit tests
- `npm run lint` - Lint the codebase

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **React 18** + **TypeScript** - UI and type safety
- **Vite** - Fast build tool and dev server
- **Zustand** - Lightweight state management
- **Vitest** + **React Testing Library** - Testing
- **CSS Grid** - Responsive board layout

## 📚 Full Documentation

For detailed game features, project structure, and development guide, see [README_GAME.md](./README_GAME.md).

---

**Happy Chess Learning!** 🎉
